README.md, before:

# Parsing, encoding and decoding of HCL to and from Go types

[![](https://godoc.org/github.com/alecthomas/hcl/v2?status.svg)](http://godoc.org/github.com/alecthomas/hcl/v2) [![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/alecthomas/hcl.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/alecthomas/hcl) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/alecthomas/hcl/v2)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/alecthomas/hcl/v2) [![Slack chat](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?logo=slack&style=flat&label=slack&color=green&message=gophers)](https://gophers.slack.com/messages/CN9DS8YF3)

This package provides idiomatic Go functions for marshalling and unmarshalling HCL, as well as an AST

It supports the same tags as the Hashicorp [hcl2](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl/tree/hcl2)
`gohcl` package, but is much less complex.

Unlike `gohcl` it also natively supports `time.Duration`, `time.Time`, `encoding.TextUnmarshaler`
and `json.Unmarshaler`.

It is HCL1 compatible and does not support any HCL2 specific features.

## Design

HCL -> AST -> Go -> AST -> HCL

Mapping can start from any point in this cycle.

Marshalling, unmarshalling, parsing and serialisation are all structurally isomorphic operations. That is, HCL can be
deserialised into an AST or Go, or vice versa, and the structure on both ends will be identical.

HCL is always parsed into an AST before unmarshaling and, similarly, Go structures are always mapped to an AST before
being serialised to HCL.

Between          | And          | Preserves
-----------------|--------------|-----------------
HCL              | AST          | Structure, values, order, comments.
HCL              | Go           | Structure, values, partial comments (via the `help:""` tag).
AST              | Go           | Structure, values.

## Schema reflection

HCL has no real concept of schemas (that I can find), but there is precedent for something similar in Terraform variable
definition files. This package supports reflecting a rudimentary schema from Go, where the value for each attribute is
one of the scalar types `number`, `string` or `boolean`. Lists and maps are typed by example.

Here's an example schema.

```
// A string field.
str = string
num = number
bool = boolean
list = [string]

// A map.
map = {
  string: number,
}

// A block.
block "name" {
  attr = string
}

// Repeated blocks.
block_slice "label0" "label1" {
  attr = string
}
```

Comments are from `help:""` tags. See [schema_test.go](https://github.com/alecthomas/hcl/blob/master/schema_test.go) for
details.

## Struct field tags

The tag format is as with other similar serialisation packages:

```
hcl:"[<name>][,<option>]"
```

The supported options are:

Tag                  | Description
---------------------|--------------------------------------
`attr` (default)     | Specifies that the value is to be populated from an attribute.
`block`              | Specifies that the value is to populated from a block.
`label`              | Specifies that the value is to populated from a block label.
`optional`           | As with attr, but the field is optional.
`remain`             | Specifies that the value is to be populated from the remaining body after populating other fields. The field must be of type `[]hcl.Entry`.

Additionally, a separate `help:""` tag can be specified to populate comment fields in the AST when serialising Go
structures.

## Position

Any block with a field named `Pos` of the type `hcl.Position` will have that field populated with positional
information:

```go
Pos Position `hcl:"-"`
```

Commit message:

feat: add support for `hcl:",embed"`

README.md, after:

# Parsing, encoding and decoding of HCL to and from Go types

[![](https://godoc.org/github.com/alecthomas/hcl/v2?status.svg)](http://godoc.org/github.com/alecthomas/hcl/v2) [![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/alecthomas/hcl.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/alecthomas/hcl) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/alecthomas/hcl/v2)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/alecthomas/hcl/v2) [![Slack chat](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?logo=slack&style=flat&label=slack&color=green&message=gophers)](https://gophers.slack.com/messages/CN9DS8YF3)

This package provides idiomatic Go functions for marshalling and unmarshalling HCL, as well as an AST

It supports the same tags as the Hashicorp [hcl2](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl/tree/hcl2)
`gohcl` package, but is much less complex.

Unlike `gohcl` it also natively supports `time.Duration`, `time.Time`, `encoding.TextUnmarshaler`
and `json.Unmarshaler`.

It is HCL1 compatible and does not support any HCL2 specific features.

## Design

HCL -> AST -> Go -> AST -> HCL

Mapping can start from any point in this cycle.

Marshalling, unmarshalling, parsing and serialisation are all structurally isomorphic operations. That is, HCL can be
deserialised into an AST or Go, or vice versa, and the structure on both ends will be identical.

HCL is always parsed into an AST before unmarshaling and, similarly, Go structures are always mapped to an AST before
being serialised to HCL.

Between          | And          | Preserves
-----------------|--------------|-----------------
HCL              | AST          | Structure, values, order, comments.
HCL              | Go           | Structure, values, partial comments (via the `help:""` tag).
AST              | Go           | Structure, values.

## Schema reflection

HCL has no real concept of schemas (that I can find), but there is precedent for something similar in Terraform variable
definition files. This package supports reflecting a rudimentary schema from Go, where the value for each attribute is
one of the scalar types `number`, `string` or `boolean`. Lists and maps are typed by example.

Here's an example schema.

```
// A string field.
str = string
num = number
bool = boolean
list = [string]

// A map.
map = {
  string: number,
}

// A block.
block "name" {
  attr = string
}

// Repeated blocks.
block_slice "label0" "label1" {
  attr = string
}
```

Comments are from `help:""` tags. See [schema_test.go](https://github.com/alecthomas/hcl/blob/master/schema_test.go) for
details.

## Struct field tags

The tag format is as with other similar serialisation packages:

```
hcl:"[<name>][,<option>]"
```

The supported options are:

Tag                  | Description
---------------------|--------------------------------------
`attr` (default)     | Specifies that the value is to be populated from an attribute.
`block`              | Specifies that the value is to populated from a block.
`label`              | Specifies that the value is to populated from a block label.
`optional`           | As with attr, but the field is optional.
`embed`              | Flattens the fields of a struct into the parent, as opposed to `block` which wraps them in a named block. The field must be a struct or pointer to struct.
`remain`             | Specifies that the value is to be populated from the remaining body after populating other fields. The field must be of type `[]hcl.Entry`.

Additionally, a separate `help:""` tag can be specified to populate comment fields in the AST when serialising Go
structures.

## Position

Any block with a field named `Pos` of the type `hcl.Position` will have that field populated with positional
information:

```go
Pos Position `hcl:"-"`
```
